src/main/asciidoc/jsf-configure/jsf-configure001.adoc, before:

[[A1352824]][[introduction-to-configuring-javaserver-faces-applications]]

== Introduction to Configuring Jakarta Server Faces Applications

The process of building and deploying simple Jakarta Server Faces
applications is described in earlier chapters of this tutorial,
including link:#BNADR[Chapter 6, "Getting Started with Web
Applications,"] link:#GIEPX[Chapter 8, "Introduction to
Facelets,"] link:#GKIOW[Chapter 13, "Using Ajax with
Jakarta Server Faces Technology,"] and
link:#GKHXA[Chapter 14, "Composite Components:
Advanced Topics and an Example."] When you create large and complex
applications, however, various additional configuration tasks are
required. These tasks include the following:

* Registering managed beans with the application so that all parts of
the application have access to them
* Configuring managed beans and model beans so that they are
instantiated with the proper values when a page makes reference to them
* Defining navigation rules for each of the pages in the application so
that the application has a smooth page flow, if nondefault navigation is
needed
* Packaging the application to include all the pages, resources, and
other files so that the application can be deployed on any compliant
container

Commit message:

Format Chapter 16 Configure Faces
Format the document to fixed-width of 72 characters
Change link macros to cross reference
Remove section anchors
Fix typos in source listings
Replace faces-config in checkout-module example

Signed-off-by: hussainm <hussain.nm@cognizant.com>

src/main/asciidoc/jsf-configure/jsf-configure001.adoc, after:

== Introduction to Configuring Jakarta Server Faces Applications

The process of building and deploying simple Jakarta Server Faces
applications is described in earlier chapters of this tutorial,
including xref:getting-started-with-web-applications[xrefstyle=full],
xref:introduction-to-facelets[xrefstyle=full],
xref:using-ajax-with-jakarta-server-faces-technology[xrefstyle=full]
and
xref:composite-components-advanced-topics-and-an-example[xrefstyle=full]
When you create large and complex applications, however, various
additional configuration tasks are required. These tasks include the
following:

* Registering managed beans with the application so that all parts of
the application have access to them
* Configuring managed beans and model beans so that they are
instantiated with the proper values when a page makes reference to them
* Defining navigation rules for each of the pages in the application so
that the application has a smooth page flow, if nondefault navigation
is needed
* Packaging the application to include all the pages, resources, and
other files so that the application can be deployed on any compliant
container
