src/main/asciidoc/ejb-basicexamples/ejb-basicexamples002.adoc, before:

[[BNBOD]][[the-cart-example]]

== The cart Example

The `cart` example represents a shopping cart in an online bookstore and
uses a stateful session bean to manage the operations of the shopping
cart. The bean's client can add a book to the cart, remove a book, or
retrieve the cart's contents. To assemble `cart`, you need the following
code:

* Session bean class (`CartBean`)
* Remote business interface (`Cart`)

All session beans require a session bean class. All enterprise beans
that permit remote access must have a remote business interface. To meet
the needs of a specific application, an enterprise bean may also need
some helper classes. The `CartBean` session bean uses two helper
classes, `BookException` and `IdVerifier`, which are discussed in the
section link:#BNBOJ[Helper Classes].

The source code for this example is in the
`_tut-install_/examples/ejb/cart/` directory.

[[BNBOE]][[the-business-interface]]

=== The Business Interface

The `Cart` business interface is a plain Java interface that defines all
the business methods implemented in the bean class. If the bean class
implements a single interface, that interface is assumed to the business
interface. The business interface is a local interface unless it is
annotated with the `javax.ejb.Remote` annotation; the `javax.ejb.Local`
annotation is optional in this case.

The bean class may implement more than one interface. In that case, the
business interfaces must either be explicitly annotated `@Local` or
`@Remote` or be specified by decorating the bean class with `@Local` or
`@Remote`. However, the following interfaces are excluded when
determining whether the bean class implements more than one interface:

* `java.io.Serializable`
* `java.io.Externalizable`
* Any of the interfaces defined by the `javax.ejb` package

The source code for the `Cart` business interface is as follows:

[source,java]
----
package ee.jakarta.tutorial.cart.ejb;

import cart.util.BookException;
import java.util.List;
import jakarta.ejb.Remote;

@Remote
public interface Cart {
    public void initialize(String person) throws BookException;
    public void initialize(String person, String id) throws BookException;
    public void addBook(String title);
    public void removeBook(String title) throws BookException;
    public List<String> getContents();
    public void remove();
}
----

[[BNBOF]][[session-bean-class]]

=== Session Bean Class

The session bean class for this example is called `CartBean`. Like any
stateful session bean, the `CartBean` class must meet the following
requirements.

* The class is annotated `@Stateful`.
* The class implements the business methods defined in the business
interface.

Stateful session beans may also do the following.

* Implement the business interface, a plain Java interface. It is good
practice to implement the bean's business interface.
* Implement any optional lifecycle callback methods, annotated
`@PostConstruct`, `@PreDestroy`, `@PostActivate`, and `@PrePassivate`.
* Implement any optional business methods annotated `@Remove`.

The source code for the `CartBean` class is as follows:

[source,java]
----
package ee.jakarta.tutorial.cart.ejb;

import java.io.Serializable;
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.List;
import ee.jakarta.tutorial.cart.util.BookException;
import ee.jakarta.tutorial.cart.util.IdVerifier;
import jakarta.ejb.Remove;
import jakarta.ejb.Stateful;

@Stateful
public class CartBean implements Cart {
    String customerId;
    String customerName;
    List<String> contents;

    @Override
    public void initialize(String person) throws BookException {
        if (person == null) {
            throw new BookException("Null person not allowed.");
        } else {
            customerName = person;
        }
        customerId = "0";
        contents = new ArrayList<>();
    }

    @Override
    public void initialize(String person, String id)
                 throws BookException {
        if (person == null) {
            throw new BookException("Null person not allowed.");
        } else {
            customerName = person;
        }

        IdVerifier idChecker = new IdVerifier();
        if (idChecker.validate(id)) {
            customerId = id;
        } else {
            throw new BookException("Invalid id: " + id);
        }

        contents = new ArrayList<>();
    }

    @Override
    public void addBook(String title) {
        contents.add(title);
    }

    @Override
    public void removeBook(String title) throws BookException {
        boolean result = contents.remove(title);
        if (result == false) {
            throw new BookException("\"" + title + " not in cart.");
        }
    }

    @Override
    public List<String> getContents() {
        return contents;
    }

    @Remove
    @Override
    public void remove() {
        contents = null;
    }
}
----

[[BNBOG]][[lifecycle-callback-methods]]

==== Lifecycle Callback Methods

A method in the bean class may be declared as a lifecycle callback
method by annotating the method with the following annotations.

* `javax.annotation.PostConstruct`: Methods annotated with
`@PostConstruct` are invoked by the container on newly constructed bean
instances after all dependency injection has completed and before the
first business method is invoked on the enterprise bean.
* `javax.annotation.PreDestroy`: Methods annotated with `@PreDestroy`
are invoked after any method annotated `@Remove` has completed and
before the container removes the enterprise bean instance.
* `javax.ejb.PostActivate`: Methods annotated with `@PostActivate` are
invoked by the container after the container moves the bean from
secondary storage to active status.
* `javax.ejb.PrePassivate`: Methods annotated with `@PrePassivate` are
invoked by the container before it passivates the enterprise bean,
meaning that the container temporarily removes the bean from the
environment and saves it to secondary storage.

Lifecycle callback methods must return `void` and have no parameters.

[[BNBOH]][[business-methods]]

==== Business Methods

The primary purpose of a session bean is to run business tasks for the
client. The client invokes business methods on the object reference it
gets from dependency injection or JNDI lookup. From the client's
perspective, the business methods appear to run locally, although they
run remotely in the session bean. The following code snippet shows how
the `CartClient` program invokes the business methods:

[source,java]
----
cart.initialize("Duke DeEarl", "123");
...
cart.addBook("Bel Canto");
 ...
List<String> bookList = cart.getContents();
...
cart.removeBook("Gravity's Rainbow");
----

The `CartBean` class implements the business methods in the following
code:

[source,java]
----
@Override
public void addBook(String title) {
   contents.add(title);
}

@Override
public void removeBook(String title) throws BookException {
   boolean result = contents.remove(title);
   if (result == false) {
      throw new BookException("\"" + title + "not in cart.");
   }
}

@Override
public List<String> getContents() {
   return contents;
}
----

The signature of a business method must conform to these rules.

* The method name must not begin with `ejb`, to avoid conflicts with
callback methods defined by the Jakarta Enterprise Beans architecture. For example, you
cannot call a business method `ejbCreate` or `ejbActivate`.
* The access control modifier must be `public`.
* If the bean allows remote access through a remote business interface,
the arguments and return types must be legal types for the Java Remote
Method Invocation (RMI) API.
* If the bean is a Jakarta XML Web Services endpoint, the arguments and return
types for the methods annotated `@WebMethod` must be legal types for
Jakarta XML Web Services.
* If the bean is a Jakarta RESTful Web Services resource, the arguments and return types for
the resource methods must be legal types for Jakarta RESTful Web Services.
* The modifier must not be `static` or `final`.

The `throws` clause can include exceptions that you define for your
application. The `removeBook` method, for example, throws a
`BookException` if the book is not in the cart.

To indicate a system-level problem, such as the inability to connect to
a database, a business method should throw a `javax.ejb.EJBException`.
The container will not wrap application exceptions, such as
`BookException`. Because `EJBException` is a subclass of
`RuntimeException`, you do not need to include it in the `throws` clause
of the business method.

[[BNBOI]][[the-remove-method]]

=== The @Remove Method

Business methods annotated with `javax.ejb.Remove` in the stateful
session bean class can be invoked by enterprise bean clients to remove
the bean instance. The container will remove the enterprise bean after a
`@Remove` method completes, either normally or abnormally.

In `CartBean`, the `remove` method is a `@Remove` method:

[source,java]
----
@Remove
@Override
public void remove() {
    contents = null;
}
----

[[BNBOJ]][[helper-classes]]

=== Helper Classes

The `CartBean` session bean has two helper classes: `BookException` and
`IdVerifier`. The `BookException` is thrown by the `removeBook` method,
and the `IdVerifier` validates the `customerId` in one of the `create`
methods. Helper classes may reside in an EJB JAR file that contains the
enterprise bean class; a WAR file if the enterprise bean is packaged
within a WAR; or an EAR file that contains an EJB JAR, a WAR file, or a
separate library JAR file. In `cart`, the helper classes are included in
a library JAR used by the application client and the EJB JAR.

[[BNBOK]][[running-the-cart-example]]

=== Running the cart Example

Now you are ready to compile the remote interface (`Cart.java`), the
enterprise bean class (`CartBean.java`), the client class
(`CartClient.java`), and the helper classes (`BookException.java` and
`IdVerifier.java`).

You can use either NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, deploy, and
run the `cart` application.

[[BNBOL]][[to-run-the-cart-example-using-netbeans-ide]]

==== To Run the cart Example Using NetBeans IDE

1.  Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see
link:#BNADI[Starting and Stopping GlassFish
Server]).
2.  From the File menu, choose Open Project.
3.  In the Open Project dialog box, navigate to:
+
[source,java]
----
tut-install/examples/ejb
----
4.  Select the `cart` folder.
5.  Select the Open Required Projects check box.
6.  Click Open Project.
7.  In the Projects tab, right-click the `cart` project and select
Build.
+
This builds and packages the application into `cart.ear`, located in
`_tut-install_/examples/ejb/cart/cart-ear/target/`, and deploys this EAR
file to your GlassFish Server instance.
+
You will see the output of the `cart-app-client` application client in
the Output tab:
+
[source,java]
----
...
Retrieving book title from cart: Infinite Jest
Retrieving book title from cart: Bel Canto
Retrieving book title from cart: Kafka on the Shore
Removing "Gravity's Rainbow" from cart.
Caught a BookException: "Gravity's Rainbow" not in cart.
----

[[BNBON]][[to-run-the-cart-example-using-maven]]

==== To Run the cart Example Using Maven

1.  Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see
link:#BNADI[Starting and Stopping GlassFish
Server]).
2.  In a terminal window, go to:
+
[source,java]
----
tut-install/examples/ejb/cart/
----
3.  Enter the following command:
+
[source,java]
----
mvn install
----
+
This command compiles and packages the application into an EAR file,
`cart.ear`, located in the `target` directory, and deploys the EAR to
your GlassFish Server instance.
+
Then, the client stubs are retrieved and run. This is equivalent to
running the following command:
+
[source,java]
----
appclient -client cart-ear/target/cart-earClient.jar
----
+
The client JAR, `cart-earClient.jar`, contains the application client
class, the helper class `BookException`, and the `Cart` business
interface.
+
When you run the client, the application client container injects any
component references declared in the application client class, in this
case the reference to the `Cart` enterprise bean.
+
You will see the output of the `cart-app-client` application client in
the terminal window:
+
[source,java]
----
...
Retrieving book title from cart: Infinite Jest
Retrieving book title from cart: Bel Canto
Retrieving book title from cart: Kafka on the Shore
Removing "Gravity's Rainbow" from cart.
Caught a BookException: "Gravity's Rainbow" not in cart.
----

Commit message:

Update remaining Javax references
Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/asciidoc/ejb-basicexamples/ejb-basicexamples002.adoc, after:

[[BNBOD]][[the-cart-example]]

== The cart Example

The `cart` example represents a shopping cart in an online bookstore and
uses a stateful session bean to manage the operations of the shopping
cart. The bean's client can add a book to the cart, remove a book, or
retrieve the cart's contents. To assemble `cart`, you need the following
code:

* Session bean class (`CartBean`)
* Remote business interface (`Cart`)

All session beans require a session bean class. All enterprise beans
that permit remote access must have a remote business interface. To meet
the needs of a specific application, an enterprise bean may also need
some helper classes. The `CartBean` session bean uses two helper
classes, `BookException` and `IdVerifier`, which are discussed in the
section link:#BNBOJ[Helper Classes].

The source code for this example is in the
`_tut-install_/examples/ejb/cart/` directory.

[[BNBOE]][[the-business-interface]]

=== The Business Interface

The `Cart` business interface is a plain Java interface that defines all
the business methods implemented in the bean class. If the bean class
implements a single interface, that interface is assumed to the business
interface. The business interface is a local interface unless it is
annotated with the `jakarta.ejb.Remote` annotation; the `jakarta.ejb.Local`
annotation is optional in this case.

The bean class may implement more than one interface. In that case, the
business interfaces must either be explicitly annotated `@Local` or
`@Remote` or be specified by decorating the bean class with `@Local` or
`@Remote`. However, the following interfaces are excluded when
determining whether the bean class implements more than one interface:

* `java.io.Serializable`
* `java.io.Externalizable`
* Any of the interfaces defined by the `jakarta.ejb` package

The source code for the `Cart` business interface is as follows:

[source,java]
----
package ee.jakarta.tutorial.cart.ejb;

import cart.util.BookException;
import java.util.List;
import jakarta.ejb.Remote;

@Remote
public interface Cart {
    public void initialize(String person) throws BookException;
    public void initialize(String person, String id) throws BookException;
    public void addBook(String title);
    public void removeBook(String title) throws BookException;
    public List<String> getContents();
    public void remove();
}
----

[[BNBOF]][[session-bean-class]]

=== Session Bean Class

The session bean class for this example is called `CartBean`. Like any
stateful session bean, the `CartBean` class must meet the following
requirements.

* The class is annotated `@Stateful`.
* The class implements the business methods defined in the business
interface.

Stateful session beans may also do the following.

* Implement the business interface, a plain Java interface. It is good
practice to implement the bean's business interface.
* Implement any optional lifecycle callback methods, annotated
`@PostConstruct`, `@PreDestroy`, `@PostActivate`, and `@PrePassivate`.
* Implement any optional business methods annotated `@Remove`.

The source code for the `CartBean` class is as follows:

[source,java]
----
package ee.jakarta.tutorial.cart.ejb;

import java.io.Serializable;
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.List;
import ee.jakarta.tutorial.cart.util.BookException;
import ee.jakarta.tutorial.cart.util.IdVerifier;
import jakarta.ejb.Remove;
import jakarta.ejb.Stateful;

@Stateful
public class CartBean implements Cart {
    String customerId;
    String customerName;
    List<String> contents;

    @Override
    public void initialize(String person) throws BookException {
        if (person == null) {
            throw new BookException("Null person not allowed.");
        } else {
            customerName = person;
        }
        customerId = "0";
        contents = new ArrayList<>();
    }

    @Override
    public void initialize(String person, String id)
                 throws BookException {
        if (person == null) {
            throw new BookException("Null person not allowed.");
        } else {
            customerName = person;
        }

        IdVerifier idChecker = new IdVerifier();
        if (idChecker.validate(id)) {
            customerId = id;
        } else {
            throw new BookException("Invalid id: " + id);
        }

        contents = new ArrayList<>();
    }

    @Override
    public void addBook(String title) {
        contents.add(title);
    }

    @Override
    public void removeBook(String title) throws BookException {
        boolean result = contents.remove(title);
        if (result == false) {
            throw new BookException("\"" + title + " not in cart.");
        }
    }

    @Override
    public List<String> getContents() {
        return contents;
    }

    @Remove
    @Override
    public void remove() {
        contents = null;
    }
}
----

[[BNBOG]][[lifecycle-callback-methods]]

==== Lifecycle Callback Methods

A method in the bean class may be declared as a lifecycle callback
method by annotating the method with the following annotations.

* `jakarta.annotation.PostConstruct`: Methods annotated with
`@PostConstruct` are invoked by the container on newly constructed bean
instances after all dependency injection has completed and before the
first business method is invoked on the enterprise bean.
* `jakarta.annotation.PreDestroy`: Methods annotated with `@PreDestroy`
are invoked after any method annotated `@Remove` has completed and
before the container removes the enterprise bean instance.
* `jakarta.ejb.PostActivate`: Methods annotated with `@PostActivate` are
invoked by the container after the container moves the bean from
secondary storage to active status.
* `jakarta.ejb.PrePassivate`: Methods annotated with `@PrePassivate` are
invoked by the container before it passivates the enterprise bean,
meaning that the container temporarily removes the bean from the
environment and saves it to secondary storage.

Lifecycle callback methods must return `void` and have no parameters.

[[BNBOH]][[business-methods]]

==== Business Methods

The primary purpose of a session bean is to run business tasks for the
client. The client invokes business methods on the object reference it
gets from dependency injection or JNDI lookup. From the client's
perspective, the business methods appear to run locally, although they
run remotely in the session bean. The following code snippet shows how
the `CartClient` program invokes the business methods:

[source,java]
----
cart.initialize("Duke DeEarl", "123");
...
cart.addBook("Bel Canto");
 ...
List<String> bookList = cart.getContents();
...
cart.removeBook("Gravity's Rainbow");
----

The `CartBean` class implements the business methods in the following
code:

[source,java]
----
@Override
public void addBook(String title) {
   contents.add(title);
}

@Override
public void removeBook(String title) throws BookException {
   boolean result = contents.remove(title);
   if (result == false) {
      throw new BookException("\"" + title + "not in cart.");
   }
}

@Override
public List<String> getContents() {
   return contents;
}
----

The signature of a business method must conform to these rules.

* The method name must not begin with `ejb`, to avoid conflicts with
callback methods defined by the Jakarta Enterprise Beans architecture. For example, you
cannot call a business method `ejbCreate` or `ejbActivate`.
* The access control modifier must be `public`.
* If the bean allows remote access through a remote business interface,
the arguments and return types must be legal types for the Java Remote
Method Invocation (RMI) API.
* If the bean is a Jakarta XML Web Services endpoint, the arguments and return
types for the methods annotated `@WebMethod` must be legal types for
Jakarta XML Web Services.
* If the bean is a Jakarta RESTful Web Services resource, the arguments and return types for
the resource methods must be legal types for Jakarta RESTful Web Services.
* The modifier must not be `static` or `final`.

The `throws` clause can include exceptions that you define for your
application. The `removeBook` method, for example, throws a
`BookException` if the book is not in the cart.

To indicate a system-level problem, such as the inability to connect to
a database, a business method should throw a `jakarta.ejb.EJBException`.
The container will not wrap application exceptions, such as
`BookException`. Because `EJBException` is a subclass of
`RuntimeException`, you do not need to include it in the `throws` clause
of the business method.

[[BNBOI]][[the-remove-method]]

=== The @Remove Method

Business methods annotated with `jakarta.ejb.Remove` in the stateful
session bean class can be invoked by enterprise bean clients to remove
the bean instance. The container will remove the enterprise bean after a
`@Remove` method completes, either normally or abnormally.

In `CartBean`, the `remove` method is a `@Remove` method:

[source,java]
----
@Remove
@Override
public void remove() {
    contents = null;
}
----

[[BNBOJ]][[helper-classes]]

=== Helper Classes

The `CartBean` session bean has two helper classes: `BookException` and
`IdVerifier`. The `BookException` is thrown by the `removeBook` method,
and the `IdVerifier` validates the `customerId` in one of the `create`
methods. Helper classes may reside in an EJB JAR file that contains the
enterprise bean class; a WAR file if the enterprise bean is packaged
within a WAR; or an EAR file that contains an EJB JAR, a WAR file, or a
separate library JAR file. In `cart`, the helper classes are included in
a library JAR used by the application client and the EJB JAR.

[[BNBOK]][[running-the-cart-example]]

=== Running the cart Example

Now you are ready to compile the remote interface (`Cart.java`), the
enterprise bean class (`CartBean.java`), the client class
(`CartClient.java`), and the helper classes (`BookException.java` and
`IdVerifier.java`).

You can use either NetBeans IDE or Maven to build, package, deploy, and
run the `cart` application.

[[BNBOL]][[to-run-the-cart-example-using-netbeans-ide]]

==== To Run the cart Example Using NetBeans IDE

1.  Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see
link:#BNADI[Starting and Stopping GlassFish
Server]).
2.  From the File menu, choose Open Project.
3.  In the Open Project dialog box, navigate to:
+
[source,java]
----
tut-install/examples/ejb
----
4.  Select the `cart` folder.
5.  Select the Open Required Projects check box.
6.  Click Open Project.
7.  In the Projects tab, right-click the `cart` project and select
Build.
+
This builds and packages the application into `cart.ear`, located in
`_tut-install_/examples/ejb/cart/cart-ear/target/`, and deploys this EAR
file to your GlassFish Server instance.
+
You will see the output of the `cart-app-client` application client in
the Output tab:
+
[source,java]
----
...
Retrieving book title from cart: Infinite Jest
Retrieving book title from cart: Bel Canto
Retrieving book title from cart: Kafka on the Shore
Removing "Gravity's Rainbow" from cart.
Caught a BookException: "Gravity's Rainbow" not in cart.
----

[[BNBON]][[to-run-the-cart-example-using-maven]]

==== To Run the cart Example Using Maven

1.  Make sure that GlassFish Server has been started (see
link:#BNADI[Starting and Stopping GlassFish
Server]).
2.  In a terminal window, go to:
+
[source,java]
----
tut-install/examples/ejb/cart/
----
3.  Enter the following command:
+
[source,java]
----
mvn install
----
+
This command compiles and packages the application into an EAR file,
`cart.ear`, located in the `target` directory, and deploys the EAR to
your GlassFish Server instance.
+
Then, the client stubs are retrieved and run. This is equivalent to
running the following command:
+
[source,java]
----
appclient -client cart-ear/target/cart-earClient.jar
----
+
The client JAR, `cart-earClient.jar`, contains the application client
class, the helper class `BookException`, and the `Cart` business
interface.
+
When you run the client, the application client container injects any
component references declared in the application client class, in this
case the reference to the `Cart` enterprise bean.
+
You will see the output of the `cart-app-client` application client in
the terminal window:
+
[source,java]
----
...
Retrieving book title from cart: Infinite Jest
Retrieving book title from cart: Bel Canto
Retrieving book title from cart: Kafka on the Shore
Removing "Gravity's Rainbow" from cart.
Caught a BookException: "Gravity's Rainbow" not in cart.
----
