src/main/asciidoc/jsf-develop/jsf-develop003.adoc, before:

[[BNAVB]][[writing-managed-bean-methods]]

== Writing Managed Bean Methods

Methods of a managed bean can perform several application-specific
functions for components on the page. These functions include

* Performing processing associated with navigation
* Handling action events
* Performing validation on the component's value
* Handling value-change events

[[sthref68]][[why-use-managed-beans]]

=== Why Use Managed Beans

By using a managed bean to perform these functions, you eliminate the
need to implement the `javax.faces.validator.Validator` interface to
handle the validation or one of the listener interfaces to handle
events. Also, by using a managed bean instead of a `Validator`
implementation to perform validation, you eliminate the need to create a
custom tag for the `Validator` implementation.

In general, it is good practice to include these methods in the same
managed bean that defines the properties for the components referencing
these methods. The reason for doing so is that the methods might need to
access the component's data to determine how to handle the event or to
perform the validation associated with the component.

The following sections explain how to write various types of managed
bean methods.

[[BNAVC]][[writing-a-method-to-handle-navigation]]

=== Writing a Method to Handle Navigation

An action method, a managed bean method that handles navigation
processing, must be a public method that takes no parameters and returns
an `Object`, which is the logical outcome that the navigation system
uses to determine the page to display next. This method is referenced
using the component tag's `action` attribute.

The following action method is from the managed bean `CashierBean`,
which is invoked when a user clicks the Submit button on the page. If
the user has ordered more than $100 worth of books, this method sets the
`rendered` properties of the `fanClub` and `specialOffer` components to
`true`, causing them to be displayed on the page the next time that page
is rendered.

After setting the components' `rendered` properties to `true`, this
method returns the logical outcome `null`. This causes the Jakarta Server
Faces implementation to re-render the page without creating a new view
of the page, retaining the customer's input. If this method were to
return `purchase`, which is the logical outcome to use to advance to a
payment page, the page would re-render without retaining the customer's
input. In this case, you want to re-render the page without clearing the
data.

If the user does not purchase more than $100 worth of books or if the
`thankYou` component has already been rendered, the method returns
`bookreceipt`. The Jakarta Server Faces implementation loads the
`bookreceipt.xhtml` page after this method returns:

[source,java]
----
public String submit() {
    ...
    if ((cart().getTotal()> 100.00) && !specialOffer.isRendered()) {
        specialOfferText.setRendered(true);
        specialOffer.setRendered(true);
        return null;
    } else if (specialOffer.isRendered() && !thankYou.isRendered()) {
        thankYou.setRendered(true);
        return null;
    } else {
        ...
        cart.clear();
        return ("bookreceipt");
    }
}
----

Typically, an action method will return a `String` outcome, as shown in
the preceding example. Alternatively, you can define an `Enum` class
that encapsulates all possible outcome strings and then make an action
method return an `enum` constant, which represents a particular `String`
outcome defined by the `Enum` class.

The following example uses an `Enum` class to encapsulate all logical
outcomes:

[source,java]
----
public enum Navigation  {
    main, accountHist, accountList, atm, atmAck, transferFunds,
     transferAck, error
}
----

When it returns an outcome, an action method uses the dot notation to
reference the outcome from the `Enum` class:

[source,java]
----
public Object submit(){
    ...
    return Navigation.accountHist;
}
----

The section link:#BNATP[Referencing a Method That
Performs Navigation] explains how a component tag references this
method. The section link:#BNAUK[Writing Properties
Bound to Component Instances] explains how to write the bean properties
to which the components are bound.

[[BNAVD]][[writing-a-method-to-handle-an-action-event]]

=== Writing a Method to Handle an Action Event

A managed bean method that handles an action event must be a public
method that accepts an action event and returns `void`. This method is
referenced using the component tag's `actionListener` attribute. Only
components that implement `javax.faces.component.ActionSource` can refer
to this method.

In the following example, a method from a managed bean named
`ActionBean` processes the event of a user clicking one of the links on
the page:

[source,java]
----
public void chooseBookFromLink(ActionEvent event) {
    String current = event.getComponent().getId();
    FacesContext context = FacesContext.getCurrentInstance();
    String bookId = books.get(current);
    context.getExternalContext().getSessionMap().put("bookId", bookId);
}
----

This method gets the component that generated the event from the event
object; then it gets the component's ID, which is a code for the book.
The method matches the code against a `HashMap` object that contains the
book codes and corresponding book ID values. Finally, the method sets
the book ID by using the selected value from the `HashMap` object.

link:#BNATQ[Referencing a Method That Handles an
Action Event] explains how a component tag references this method.

[[BNAVE]][[writing-a-method-to-perform-validation]]

=== Writing a Method to Perform Validation

Instead of implementing the `javax.faces.validator.Validator` interface
to perform validation for a component, you can include a method in a
managed bean to take care of validating input for the component. A
managed bean method that performs validation must accept a
`javax.faces.context.FacesContext`, the component whose data must be
validated, and the data to be validated, just as the `validate` method
of the `Validator` interface does. A component refers to the managed
bean method by using its `validator` attribute. Only values of `UIInput`
components or values of components that extend `UIInput` can be
validated.

Here is an example of a managed bean method that validates user input,
from link:#GJCXV[The guessnumber-cdi CDI
Example]:

[source,java]
----
public void validateNumberRange(FacesContext context,
                                UIComponent toValidate, 
                                Object value) {
    if (remainingGuesses <= 0) {
        ((UIInput) toValidate).setValid(false);
        FacesMessage message = new FacesMessage("No guesses left!");
        context.addMessage(toValidate.getClientId(context), message);
        return;
    }

    int input = (Integer) value;
    if (input < minimum || input> maximum) {
        ((UIInput) toValidate).setValid(false);

        FacesMessage message = new FacesMessage("Invalid guess");
        context.addMessage(toValidate.getClientId(context), message);
    }
}
----

The `validateNumberRange` method performs two different validations.

* If the user has run out of guesses, the method sets the `valid`
property of the `UIInput` component to `false`. Then it queues a message
onto the `FacesContext` instance, associating the message with the
component ID, and returns.
* If the user has some remaining guesses, the method then retrieves the
local value of the component. If the input value is outside the
allowable range, the method again sets the `valid` property of the
`UIInput` component to `false`, queues a different message on the
`FacesContext` instance, and returns.

See link:#BNATR[Referencing a Method That Performs
Validation] for information on how a component tag references this
method.

[[BNAVF]][[writing-a-method-to-handle-a-value-change-event]]

=== Writing a Method to Handle a Value-Change Event

A managed bean that handles a value-change event must use a public
method that accepts a value-change event and returns `void`. This method
is referenced using the component's `valueChangeListener` attribute.
This section explains how to write a managed bean method to replace the
`javax.faces.event.ValueChangeListener` implementation.

The following example tag comes from
link:#BNATA[Registering a Value-Change Listener on a
Component], where the `h:inputText` tag with the `id` of `name` has a
`ValueChangeListener` instance registered on it. This
`ValueChangeListener` instance handles the event of entering a value in
the field corresponding to the component. When the user enters a value,
a value-change event is generated, and the
`processValueChange(ValueChangeEvent)` method of the
`ValueChangeListener` class is invoked:

[source,xml]
----
<h:inputText id="name"
             size="30"
             value="#{cashierBean.name}"
             required="true"
             requiredMessage="#{bundle.ReqCustomerName}">    
     <f:valueChangeListener
         type="ee.jakarta.tutorial.dukesbookstore.listeners.NameChanged" />
</h:inputText>
----

Instead of implementing `ValueChangeListener`, you can write a managed
bean method to handle this event. To do this, you move the
`processValueChange(ValueChangeEvent)` method from the
`ValueChangeListener` class, called `NameChanged`, to your managed bean.

Here is the managed bean method that processes the event of entering a
value in the `name` field on the page:

[source,java]
----
public void processValueChange(ValueChangeEvent event)
        throws AbortProcessingException {
    if (null != event.getNewValue()) {
        FacesContext.getCurrentInstance().getExternalContext().
                getSessionMap().put("name", event.getNewValue());
    }
}
----

To make this method handle the `ValueChangeEvent` generated by an input
component, reference this method from the component tag's
`valueChangeListener` attribute. See
link:#BNATS[Referencing a Method That Handles a
Value-Change Event] for more information.

Commit message:

Update remaining Javax references
Signed-off-by: Guillermo González de Agüero <z06.guillermo@gmail.com>

src/main/asciidoc/jsf-develop/jsf-develop003.adoc, after:

[[BNAVB]][[writing-managed-bean-methods]]

== Writing Managed Bean Methods

Methods of a managed bean can perform several application-specific
functions for components on the page. These functions include

* Performing processing associated with navigation
* Handling action events
* Performing validation on the component's value
* Handling value-change events

[[sthref68]][[why-use-managed-beans]]

=== Why Use Managed Beans

By using a managed bean to perform these functions, you eliminate the
need to implement the `jakarta.faces.validator.Validator` interface to
handle the validation or one of the listener interfaces to handle
events. Also, by using a managed bean instead of a `Validator`
implementation to perform validation, you eliminate the need to create a
custom tag for the `Validator` implementation.

In general, it is good practice to include these methods in the same
managed bean that defines the properties for the components referencing
these methods. The reason for doing so is that the methods might need to
access the component's data to determine how to handle the event or to
perform the validation associated with the component.

The following sections explain how to write various types of managed
bean methods.

[[BNAVC]][[writing-a-method-to-handle-navigation]]

=== Writing a Method to Handle Navigation

An action method, a managed bean method that handles navigation
processing, must be a public method that takes no parameters and returns
an `Object`, which is the logical outcome that the navigation system
uses to determine the page to display next. This method is referenced
using the component tag's `action` attribute.

The following action method is from the managed bean `CashierBean`,
which is invoked when a user clicks the Submit button on the page. If
the user has ordered more than $100 worth of books, this method sets the
`rendered` properties of the `fanClub` and `specialOffer` components to
`true`, causing them to be displayed on the page the next time that page
is rendered.

After setting the components' `rendered` properties to `true`, this
method returns the logical outcome `null`. This causes the Jakarta Server
Faces implementation to re-render the page without creating a new view
of the page, retaining the customer's input. If this method were to
return `purchase`, which is the logical outcome to use to advance to a
payment page, the page would re-render without retaining the customer's
input. In this case, you want to re-render the page without clearing the
data.

If the user does not purchase more than $100 worth of books or if the
`thankYou` component has already been rendered, the method returns
`bookreceipt`. The Jakarta Server Faces implementation loads the
`bookreceipt.xhtml` page after this method returns:

[source,java]
----
public String submit() {
    ...
    if ((cart().getTotal()> 100.00) && !specialOffer.isRendered()) {
        specialOfferText.setRendered(true);
        specialOffer.setRendered(true);
        return null;
    } else if (specialOffer.isRendered() && !thankYou.isRendered()) {
        thankYou.setRendered(true);
        return null;
    } else {
        ...
        cart.clear();
        return ("bookreceipt");
    }
}
----

Typically, an action method will return a `String` outcome, as shown in
the preceding example. Alternatively, you can define an `Enum` class
that encapsulates all possible outcome strings and then make an action
method return an `enum` constant, which represents a particular `String`
outcome defined by the `Enum` class.

The following example uses an `Enum` class to encapsulate all logical
outcomes:

[source,java]
----
public enum Navigation  {
    main, accountHist, accountList, atm, atmAck, transferFunds,
     transferAck, error
}
----

When it returns an outcome, an action method uses the dot notation to
reference the outcome from the `Enum` class:

[source,java]
----
public Object submit(){
    ...
    return Navigation.accountHist;
}
----

The section link:#BNATP[Referencing a Method That
Performs Navigation] explains how a component tag references this
method. The section link:#BNAUK[Writing Properties
Bound to Component Instances] explains how to write the bean properties
to which the components are bound.

[[BNAVD]][[writing-a-method-to-handle-an-action-event]]

=== Writing a Method to Handle an Action Event

A managed bean method that handles an action event must be a public
method that accepts an action event and returns `void`. This method is
referenced using the component tag's `actionListener` attribute. Only
components that implement `jakarta.faces.component.ActionSource` can refer
to this method.

In the following example, a method from a managed bean named
`ActionBean` processes the event of a user clicking one of the links on
the page:

[source,java]
----
public void chooseBookFromLink(ActionEvent event) {
    String current = event.getComponent().getId();
    FacesContext context = FacesContext.getCurrentInstance();
    String bookId = books.get(current);
    context.getExternalContext().getSessionMap().put("bookId", bookId);
}
----

This method gets the component that generated the event from the event
object; then it gets the component's ID, which is a code for the book.
The method matches the code against a `HashMap` object that contains the
book codes and corresponding book ID values. Finally, the method sets
the book ID by using the selected value from the `HashMap` object.

link:#BNATQ[Referencing a Method That Handles an
Action Event] explains how a component tag references this method.

[[BNAVE]][[writing-a-method-to-perform-validation]]

=== Writing a Method to Perform Validation

Instead of implementing the `jakarta.faces.validator.Validator` interface
to perform validation for a component, you can include a method in a
managed bean to take care of validating input for the component. A
managed bean method that performs validation must accept a
`jakarta.faces.context.FacesContext`, the component whose data must be
validated, and the data to be validated, just as the `validate` method
of the `Validator` interface does. A component refers to the managed
bean method by using its `validator` attribute. Only values of `UIInput`
components or values of components that extend `UIInput` can be
validated.

Here is an example of a managed bean method that validates user input,
from link:#GJCXV[The guessnumber-cdi CDI
Example]:

[source,java]
----
public void validateNumberRange(FacesContext context,
                                UIComponent toValidate, 
                                Object value) {
    if (remainingGuesses <= 0) {
        ((UIInput) toValidate).setValid(false);
        FacesMessage message = new FacesMessage("No guesses left!");
        context.addMessage(toValidate.getClientId(context), message);
        return;
    }

    int input = (Integer) value;
    if (input < minimum || input> maximum) {
        ((UIInput) toValidate).setValid(false);

        FacesMessage message = new FacesMessage("Invalid guess");
        context.addMessage(toValidate.getClientId(context), message);
    }
}
----

The `validateNumberRange` method performs two different validations.

* If the user has run out of guesses, the method sets the `valid`
property of the `UIInput` component to `false`. Then it queues a message
onto the `FacesContext` instance, associating the message with the
component ID, and returns.
* If the user has some remaining guesses, the method then retrieves the
local value of the component. If the input value is outside the
allowable range, the method again sets the `valid` property of the
`UIInput` component to `false`, queues a different message on the
`FacesContext` instance, and returns.

See link:#BNATR[Referencing a Method That Performs
Validation] for information on how a component tag references this
method.

[[BNAVF]][[writing-a-method-to-handle-a-value-change-event]]

=== Writing a Method to Handle a Value-Change Event

A managed bean that handles a value-change event must use a public
method that accepts a value-change event and returns `void`. This method
is referenced using the component's `valueChangeListener` attribute.
This section explains how to write a managed bean method to replace the
`jakarta.faces.event.ValueChangeListener` implementation.

The following example tag comes from
link:#BNATA[Registering a Value-Change Listener on a
Component], where the `h:inputText` tag with the `id` of `name` has a
`ValueChangeListener` instance registered on it. This
`ValueChangeListener` instance handles the event of entering a value in
the field corresponding to the component. When the user enters a value,
a value-change event is generated, and the
`processValueChange(ValueChangeEvent)` method of the
`ValueChangeListener` class is invoked:

[source,xml]
----
<h:inputText id="name"
             size="30"
             value="#{cashierBean.name}"
             required="true"
             requiredMessage="#{bundle.ReqCustomerName}">    
     <f:valueChangeListener
         type="ee.jakarta.tutorial.dukesbookstore.listeners.NameChanged" />
</h:inputText>
----

Instead of implementing `ValueChangeListener`, you can write a managed
bean method to handle this event. To do this, you move the
`processValueChange(ValueChangeEvent)` method from the
`ValueChangeListener` class, called `NameChanged`, to your managed bean.

Here is the managed bean method that processes the event of entering a
value in the `name` field on the page:

[source,java]
----
public void processValueChange(ValueChangeEvent event)
        throws AbortProcessingException {
    if (null != event.getNewValue()) {
        FacesContext.getCurrentInstance().getExternalContext().
                getSessionMap().put("name", event.getNewValue());
    }
}
----

To make this method handle the `ValueChangeEvent` generated by an input
component, reference this method from the component tag's
`valueChangeListener` attribute. See
link:#BNATS[Referencing a Method That Handles a
Value-Change Event] for more information.
